the dinosaurs were some of the most
successful animals ever to roam the
planet for a hundred and forty million
years their dominance was unchallenged
except by other dinosaurs
then all of a sudden they all
disappeared
something must have killed them off
to find out what had done it scientists
began to investigate a layer of rock
formed 65 million years ago
it's seen in mines and rock outcrops
around the world
below this layer there are lots of
dinosaur fossils above it there are none
it's called the KT boundary
this is the KT boundary because it's
such a thin sharp line we know something
dramatic must have happened to you some
catastrophe and until recently we have
almost no clue what happened whatsoever
here so to remain a total mystery
then in 1979 they discovered a clue in
the KT boundary a high concentration of
an element called iridium
such quantities are extremely rare on
earth and usually come from outer space
so soon we should find 10,000 times more
iridium at the very moment when the
dinosaurs disappeared you know somewhere
on earth a very big impact must have
happened by an asteroid or a comet in
fact there was so much iridium
scientists realized the asteroid must
have been a staggering 10 kilometers in
diameter
if the theory was right the impact would
have created a fireball equivalent to 10
billion Hiroshima bombs the shockwave
alone would have destroyed all life for
hundreds of miles around
you